{% include navigation.html %}

## Table of Contents
- [Big Idea 1]()
- [Big Idea 2]()
- [Big Idea 3]()
- [Big Idea 4]()
- [Big Idea 5](https://github.com/jeankim05/jeanapcsptri3/blob/gh-pages/testprepstudy.md#big-idea-5---impact-of-computing)

### Big Idea 5 - Impact of Computing
Section | Notes | Action |
------- | ----- | ------ |
5.1 Beneficial and Harmful Effects | The way people complete tasks often changes to incorporate new computing innovations. Multirotor Benefits - Deliveries, finding lost people, easy photography. Harmful - flying in unregulated illegal zones and privacy concerns. Wii Control Benefits - gets people active. Harmful - broken TV’s and injuries. Not all effects of a computing innovation are anticipated in advance. A single effect can be viewed as both beneficial and harmful by different people or even by the same person. People create computing innovations. Advances in computing have generated and increased creativity in other fields such as medicine, engineering, communication, and the arts | I believe that dopamine issues are real. When you find something that you enjoy or makes you happy, it is easy to become addicted and continue to want this feeling or do whatever makes you feel this way. This addiction must come from something in our bodies, which activate these feelings and can only be activated by these specific activities. Yes, dopamine does impact my personal study and success in High School. While good grades at school can be as source of dopamine, doing homework and studying for tests is not. Other activities such as watching youtube or going on your phone and texting friends give dopamine. So, it is easy to get distracted and only do these activities and not be as productive as you possibly can be. Furthermore, here are three beneficial and harmful effects of computing. They include being efficient, being a chance to live another world, allow people to have more opportunities. Three harmful effects are privacy, cyberbullying, and negativity online. |
5.2 Digital Divide | Internet access varies between socioeconomic, geographic, and demographic characteristics, as well as between countries. The digital divide refers to differing access to computing devices and the Internet, based on socioeconomic, geographic, or demographic characteristics. In some countries, computers are not common in rural areas and may only have a small number of websites. The Internet may be used to protect and advocate the government. There is a high level of surveillance on the internet to protect the government. The digital divide can affect both groups and individuals. The digital divide raises issues of equity, access, and influence, both globally and locally. The digital divide is affected by actions of individuals, organizations, and governments. A single effect can be viewed as both beneficial and harmful by different people or even by the same person. | Technology is extremely important in today’s society. It can be used to improve education, both my personal education as well as others' education. For me, it starts with classes that not only apply to computer science, but also to courses such as history, math, english, and natural sciences. In my classes, they are used to host videos, online learning platforms such as CK-12, canvas, and gradebooks such as MyPlan and synergy. These resources not only provide an easier way of accessing information remotely, but also act as a convenient place for all my notes and handouts to be in one place. Also, resources from Google Drive such as google docs, google slides, and google sheets can be used in outside activities. For everyone else at my school, they share similar experiences with using computer science and technology to learn. However, I do recognize the fact that a digital divide exists and that not everybody has access to these online resources.
5.3 Compputer Bias | Bias can be both harmful and beneficial. An example is social media. There are countless amounts of social media apps including facebook, instagram, and tik tok. The bias present here is the age groups that it is tailored to. Generally, tik tok is a newer platform that is meant for younger people such as primary school students and people in their 20s. Instagram is very popular, but for the middle generation. Lastly, Facebook is tailored for older generations such as parents or those in their 40s. Also, another example of bias is in face recognition or voice recognition programs. There was a certain case of an HP computer not being able to recognize the face of a Black person while other people who were caucasian or white were easily recognized. Also, there were examples of voice apps such as Amazon's Alexa, Google, Siri, or Bixby, not being able to recognize the voices of people with certain accents. It was not done on purpose or with malicious, but these events just happen as part of the program. | The owner probably did not think that it was intentional. The program was probably programmed with white Americans, and not Black Americans. Although it was probably not intentional, it can be harmful to a certain group, in this case, the Black Americans. It should definitely be corrected as long as the people who work at HP know that this is a problem that currently exists. This group should try to correct the algorithm by incorporating people of different ethnicities and skin colors.
5.4 Crowdsourcing | Crowdsourcing is important to reach a vast variety of audiences. It allows people to look at data that is shared, as well as important information. Crowdsourcing is very similar to surveying that statisticians or researchers might do. It is important to utilize crowdsourcing since data can be taken from multiple groups of people. For example, if data is only taken from a single AP Computer Science Principles class to represent the entire Del Norte High School, there will be multiple groups left out. Women, non-Asians, those without computers, underclassmen, and humanities-focused students will all be left out. | To get an accurate crowdsource of all AP Computer Science Principles students, an appropriate method would be to sample one entire class period if a census is not available. Sampling an entire period is better than scrum teams since friends might be of similar interests as friends. For Del Norte, certain grades or classes would not work. Instead, it should be based off of activities such as certain buildings.
5.5 Legal and Ethical Concerns | Intellectual Property or IP is a work or invention that leads to rights because of one's creativity. Copyright protects this intellectual property and prevents random people from using it as one's own (plagiarism). There are legal ways to access other material by other developers such as creative commons, open access and source. This may lead to a digitial divide because some people do not truly have the equal things as others. Open Source is a program that can be freely used by everyone and may even be changed and redistributed. Open access is a little different since there are free resources and research output, but there are restrictions such as licensing or copyright. Lastly, creative commons provides free licenses to allow others to use it. | There are many different types of licenses. GNU APGLv3 is one where the copyrights and notices from the license itself are preserved. The sources are disclosed and the code for any of the changed versions must be readily available to the public. GNU GPLv3, GNU LGPLv3 are similar in that the source code can come from the same license and make them available. Some other licenses include Mozilla Public License, Apache License, MIT License (the one that I have decided to use for m y personal github pages and repository), and boost software license.
5.6 Safe Computing | 
